README.md, before:

# HomeAutomation
Code for a centralized webserver and correlating services hosted on Raspberry Pi devices.

The purpose of this project is to provide a way to manage multiple projects from a few devices in a centralized manner, creating the ability for a wide variety and scope of individual projects to be interfaced with in a unifed manner.

# System Overview:
Series of multiple Docker Containers hosted on Raspberry Pi devices, including
1. FastAPI Python Container which contains the Web Server running on the central Raspberry Pi Zero 2 W. This will serve as the central API end-points for the project.
2. Frontend Container, which connects to the FastAPI end-points to produce a Dashboard containing a log of the commands issued, status of the boards, and other information.
3. Postgre SQL database for Raspberry Pi Pico W sensor readings and measurements.
4. Additional database for storing logs of issued commands and messages.

Additionally, non containerized microcontrollers which are equipped with several sensors can be added into the system. Current microcontrollers include:
1. Pico 1, which contains a temperature and air moisture sensor. This Pi will be utilized to collect data about the probability of dangerous road conditions.
2. Pico 2, which is equipped with a vibration sensor. This will be attached to Laundry Machines, and will send a text when laundry is completed.
3. Pico 3, which will be solder'ed into light fixtures to automate room lighting from the console.

# Project Organization:
File Structure:
Home Automation
|-backend (Storage for the Webserver and API-related code)
|--api (Endpoints)
|--core
|--tests
|--main.py (Server Access Point)
|-frontend (Storage for the User-Facing/Dashboard Related Code)
|-devices (Storage for the individual system devices code)

# Future Plans:
1. Method of automatically adding new Pi Projects via the central console.
2. Having select features of the console available outside of the LAN environment.
3. Increased management ability for individual devices, including battery status and further error checking.

Commit message:

Device initialization, additional endpoint refactoring, documentation updating

README.md, after:

# HomeAutomation
Code for a centralized webserver and correlating services hosted on Raspberry Pi devices.

The purpose of this project is to provide a way to manage multiple projects from a few devices in a centralized manner, creating the ability for a wide variety and scope of individual projects to be interfaced with in a unifed manner.

# System Overview:
Series of multiple Docker Containers hosted on various microcontroller devices, including
1. FastAPI Python Container which contains the Web Server running on the central Raspberry Pi Zero 2 W. This will serve as the central API end-points for the project.
2. Frontend Container, which connects to the FastAPI end-points to produce a Dashboard containing a log of the commands issued, status of the boards, and other information.
3. Postgre SQL database for Raspberry Pi Pico W sensor readings and measurements, along with error logs and device statuses.


Additionally, non containerized microcontrollers which are equipped with several sensors can be added into the system. Current microcontrollers include:
1. Pico 1, which contains a temperature and air moisture sensor (DHT-22). This Pi will be utilized to collect data about the probability of dangerous road conditions.
2. ESP32C6, which is equipped with a vibration sensor(SW-420). This will be attached to Laundry Machines, and will send a text when laundry is completed.


# Project Organization:
File Structure:
Home Automation
|-backend (Storage for the Webserver and API-related code)
|--api (Endpoints)
|--core
|--tests
|--main.py (Server Access Point)
|-frontend (Storage for the User-Facing/Dashboard Related Code)
|-devices (Storage for the individual system devices code)

Endpoints:
- /sensors  -Handle's sensor data
- /laundry  -Handle's laundry tasks
- /status   -Dedicated endpoint for device statuses
- /logs     -For error logs

# Future Plans:
1. Method of automatically adding new Pi Projects via the central console.
2. Having select features of the console available outside of the LAN environment.
3. Increased management ability for individual devices, including battery status and further error checking.
4. Pico 3, which will be solder'ed into light fixtures to automate room lighting from the console.
5. Introducing a cluster of Raspberry Pi Zero's for increased Computing
6. Including an external storage to allow for the database and containers to come off of the SD card.
